# NHL shot selection visualizer
### This project is meant to help visualize NHL shot selection for an individual player in an individual game
### Written for Dr. James Plank's Advanced Programming and Algorithms class fall 2021

I'm a big hockey fan (Go Blues!) so I figured I would try to work with the NHL API for this project and visualize some shot data.

I've chosen to write this in Python because of my familiarity with it and easy access to a web requests api, and simple packages to parse the JSON that is returned by the NHL API.

Written in python 3.8.10 but should work for any python 3 version. The only external library I require is requests. Use pip to install it like so:

`python -m pip install requests`

To generate the jgraph input, run

`python main.py [yyyy-mm-dd] "[player full name]"`

for example:

`python main.py 2019-06-12 "Ryan O'Reilly"`

Depending on your python config, you might have to use `python3` in place of `python` in these commands. Whatever actually runs python 3 on your system.

By default, the makefile will generate a few example files.

You can also use the makefile to generate an output pdf like so:

`make custom DATE=[yyyy-mm-dd] PLAYER="[player full name]"`

for example:

`make custom DATE=2019-06-12 PLAYER="Ryan O'Reilly"`

The makefile requires ps2pdf to be installed, and needs a jgraph executable in the root folder

Here are the example graphs generated by running make

Here is a quick list of some functionality I would have liked to have added if I had more time"
- Making the playing space look more like a real hockey rink
- Game ranges rather than just one game. Players generally only have a few shots in a game so the graphs aren't as intersting as I thought they would be
- Shot density visualization, such as [here](http://www.stat.cmu.edu/cmsac/poster2020/posters/Kumagai-ClusteringNHLShot.pdf). Not sure if this is even possible with JGraph but seems like it could make for an interesting exercise.

known possible problems:
- If more than one player who plays on a given day have the same name, there is no way to specify the correct one so it won't always work. As far as I know, there are no two active players who have the same name but it's possible.
- I'm not sure how far back the shot data goes. If there are no coordinates in the data then there will be an error

todo:
- make examples to run in the makefile
- add pictures to readme